Start your journey by applying for an HDB Flat Eligibility (HFE) letter via My Flat Dashboard for a holistic understanding of your housing and financing options before you embark on your home buying journey. The HFE letter will inform you upfront of your eligibility to buy a new or resale flat, as well as the amounts of CPF housing grants and HDB housing loan you are eligible for. Read our frequently asked questions on the HFE letter.

Read our guides below when planning your resale flat purchase:  
Finding a flat  
After obtaining an HFE letter, look for a suitable flat that meets your budget and needs.  
Browse resale flat listings on the HDB Flat Portal. Read our guide on finding a flat for more information on the Resale Flat Listing (RFL) service and other services you can use to help plan and prepare for your flat purchase.  

Managing the flat purchase  
You can either manage the flat purchase on your own or engage the services of a salesperson.  
If you are managing the flat purchase on your own, read our guide on preparations for the flat purchase, such as considering your budget, searching for a flat and negotiating the price. The guide also includes practical tips on engaging a salesperson, if you decide to do so.  
If you are engaging a salesperson, check the salesperson’s phone number with CEA's Public Register to verify the identity of the salesperson and ensure that he/ she is a registered salesperson, and safeguard yourself against scammers.  

Important note:  
The applicant(s) and occupier(s) listed in your resale flat application must remain the same as those in your HFE letter application.  
If you need to make any changes to your HFE letter, e.g. addition/ removal of household member(s), change in status from an applicant to an occupier or vice versa, marital status, citizenship, ownership of private properties, etc., please follow the steps below:  
Submitted a resale application  
Steps to take  
No  
Cancel your HFE letter  
After cancellation, apply for a fresh HFE letter (i.e. complete Step 1 and Step 2 of the buying process again) via My Flat Dashboard  
Yes  
Write to us via MyRequest@HDB with your resale case number. We will advise you further.  

Mode of financing  
To work out a financial plan for your flat purchase, you need to consider the following:  
Payments that you will make by using cash and CPF savings  
The amount of housing loan  
CPF housing grant(s)  
Read mode of financing, where we provide a breakdown of the payments required, and the types of housing loans available and financial tools you can use.  

Ethnic Integration Policy (EIP) and/ or Singapore Permanent Resident (SPR) quota  
When buying a resale flat, you must ensure your household is within the EIP quota for the block and neighbourhood, and if applicable, the SPR quota as well.  
Find out about the EIP and SPR quota and how to check your eligibility. The prevailing EIP and SPR quotas for the month are also displayed on the resale flat listings on the HDB Flat Portal.  

Conversion of Adjoining Flats Scheme  
Read about the Conversion of Adjoining Flats Scheme if you and your family intend to buy adjoining 3-room or smaller flats.  

NEXT STEPS  
Mode of Financing  
Learn about the financial considerations for buying an HDB resale flat. There are also several tools and resources for your use.  
Option to Purchase  
Read about entering into an Option to Purchase (OTP) with flat sellers.  
Request for Value  
Obtain information on submitting a request for value.  
Resale Application  
Learn about submitting a resale application and what to expect after you have submitted one.