Buying a Flat 
Selling a Flat
Servicing Your HDB Housing Loan
Renting a Flat
Living in an HDB Flat
Shopping in Your Neighbourhood
Renting Out a Flat/ Bedroom
Season Parking
Community
About Us
The Housing & Development Board (HDB) is Singapore's public housing authority and a statutory board under the Ministry of National Development. We develop public housing to provide Singaporeans with affordable, quality homes, and a better living environment. Focusing on nurturing a strong family and community spirit, public housing policies and schemes are formulated to meet changing needs and aspirations.
Residential
Whether you are buying, selling, or already living in an HDB flat, everything you need to know about residential properties is housed here.
Community
More than homes, our HDB towns are vibrant places to enjoy to the fullest. There is so much in place for you to bond with your neighbours and create an active and cohesive community.
Business
Get the information you need for any business involving HDB homes, properties, commercial spaces, or land under our management.
Car Parks
You can find out more about the types of HDB car parks, important car park information, and parking offences.
e-Services
Transact with us at your convenience. You can submit an application, submit an online enquiry, or make an appointment with us.
  
Managing the Flat Purchase
Ethnic Integration Policy (EIP) and Singapore Permanent Resident (SPR) Quota 
Conversion of Adjoining Flats Scheme 
Home
Residential  
Buying a Flat Buying Procedure for Resale Flats  
Plan, Source and Contract  
Planning Considerations  
Conversion of Adjoining Flats Scheme  

Conversion of Adjoining Flats Scheme  
If you and your family intend to buy adjoining flats that are 3-room or smaller and convert them into 1 unit under the Conversion of Adjoining Flats Scheme, you have to meet the eligibility conditions and adhere to the conditions after purchasing the converted flat. You should also check the upgrading costs (if applicable) for your converted flat.

Eligibility conditions  
Your family is formed by a married couple, and/ or parent(s) and child(ren).  
Note:  
If you are buying  
Details  
2 adjoining 3-room or smaller flats  
You must meet the Ethnic Integration Policy (EIP) and Singapore Permanent Resident (SPR) Quota for the block and neighbourhood when you submit the resale application  
A 3-room or smaller flat adjoining your current 3-room or smaller flat  
EIP/ SPR quota does not apply  
Confirm if pairing of flats is possible  
To obtain confirmation if pairing of flats is possible, download and complete the application form Enquiry on Combination of Flats under the Conversion Scheme (PDF, 90KB), and submit it to us via our e-Feedback form.  
We will assess the flats and inform you whether pairing the flats is possible. If so, you may then proceed with the purchase.

Mode of financing  
Purchase of 2 adjoining flats  
If you are buying 2 adjoining flats, which will be converted into 1 unit, you may obtain a housing loan* for the purchase of both flats.  
* The application of a housing loan from HDB or financial institutions will be subjected to eligibility conditions and credit assessments

Purchase of flat adjoining your current unit  
If you are buying a flat adjoining your current flat and have an outstanding housing loan, that loan must first be discharged.  

The financing of the adjoining flat is as follows:  
If the adjoining flat is to be financed with:  
Details  
A housing loan from a financial institution (FI)  
Check with the FI on the new loan amount, which will comprise the outstanding housing loan amount for your current flat and the amount required to buy the adjoining flat  
Ensure that the outstanding housing loan from HDB/ FI for your current flat has been discharged before you buy the adjoining flat  

A housing loan from HDB and the current flat is financed with a housing loan from a FI  
The housing loan from HDB will only be for the amount needed to buy the adjoining flat  
Ensure that you have enough funds to discharge the outstanding loan for your current flat, and do so before you buy the adjoining flat  

Physically converting 2 flats into 1 unit  
Upon completing the purchase of the adjoining flat(s), the adjoining flats must be converted into a single unit by:  
Engaging a renovation contractor from the Directory of Renovation Contractors to construct at least 1 opening of at least 1 metre by 2 metres between the 2 units  
Engaging a licensed contractor to remove the PUB meters (electricity, water, and gas supply) for 1 of the 2 units  
You may retain your current unit number for the converted flat.  

Conditions after buying the converted flat  
Minimum occupation period (MOP)  
You may sell the converted flat after fulfilling the MOP from the date the flat(s) purchase is completed and in accordance with the prevailing resale policy.  

Taking a housing subsidy  
Purchase of 2 adjoining flats  
If you take a CPF housing grant for the purchase of 2 adjoining flats, you will be a second-timer and need to pay a resale levy based on the flat type of the converted flat when buying a second subsidised housing.  

Purchase of flat adjoining to your current unit  
If your current flat is bought from HDB or a resale flat bought with a CPF Housing Grant and you are buying 1 adjoining flat, the following will apply:  

Current Flat  
Treatment  
First subsidised flat  
You are a second-timer and have to pay a resale levy when you sell the converted flat.  

Second subsidised flat  
You are no longer eligible to buy another flat from HDB.  

Sub-dividing of converted flat  
After the conversion, you cannot sub-divide the converted flat for sale, transfer, surrender, etc.  

Payment of upgrading costs  
You have to pay the upgrading cost according to the following:  
Completion of Purchase  
Payment of Upgrading Cost  
Before polling  
Payment will be based on the flat type of the converted flat  
During or after polling  
Payment will be based on the total upgrading cost for both flats